On implementing character AI

Goals and specifications
the goal is to create a modular AI system that can model many different behaviors while using the same framework for all NPCs and with mutability in mind.
i will outline my own proposal for such a system below, but first i will list some of the behaviors our system could model.

ANIMAL/FERAL BEHAVIOR
eating food items
predator animals "hunt" their set of prey animals, automatic aggro on any Actor that matches their prey list.
skittishness and avoiding other Actors.
freeze/fight/flight response
random wandering
herding behavior / staying close to actors of the same species
collecting shiny items
nesting and burrowing
reproduction
snoozing n basking
social play behaviors?
possibility of entering party as tamed animal?
// these are basic behaviors that most Actors will have in some form. animals spawn in wilderness tiles and are not tracked.

PARTY MEMBER BEHAVIOR
follow party leader
suppress own behaviors. wont start battles on their own.
treat characters that are hostile to party members as hostile to them too.
heal party members low on health
rest along with party

VILLAGE NPC BEHAVIOR
job-related behaviors ( standing at job station / storefront / guardpost / patrol route )
alerting guards when attacked
returning to their residence at night ( this could be merged with nesting behavior )
wandering during free time?
exchanging goods with traders
quest generation?
// you'll find these NPCs in villages.

WANDERER NPC BEHAVIOR
wanders between rooms, intermittently visits villages
can be recruited from villages ??
sometimes stops to rest and make camp
// you'll often find these in wilderness rooms. they serve as a source of quests and bartering in these zones. are often a combat class and suitable for recruitment. the game keeps track of these on a world basis and you might encounter the same wanderer a few times, or even get a quest to rescue them from some situation.

MINDLESS ENEMY BEHAVIOR
perform job repetitively
doesnt rest
attacks on sight
no self-preservation behaviors
not receptive to persuasion
// this is more like your run-of-the-mill enemy type. mindlessly committed to making your life difficult. you might find these behaviors in artificial creatures and mind-controlled minions. you'll most often find these in dungeons protecting treasure and the like.

PROPOSAL
i propose that NPCs act based on a priority list similar to games like the Sims