DESIGN OF CHARACTER STATS

CON
represents ability to withstand physical ailments. modifies max hp and debuff resist chance.

DEX
represents agility and precision. modifies DEX weapon damage, character movement speed, accuracy, and dodge chance.

STR
represents physical prowess. modifies STR weapon damage, max collective weight of equipped items, ability to break restraints, and blocking ability.

INT
before we can start defining the INT skill stat, there is an important thing we gotta address:
how do you implement an INT loss mechanic in a way that mechanically fulfills the fantasy?
see, i initially thought of the int stat in terms of capabilities we see in animals of varying intelligence. this seemed like a natural way of viewing it as this game is meant to have feral tf mechanics and feral animal NPCs. however, it would feel a bit weird if your int stat decided that your character is now too stupid to engage in barter or speech, considering how broad a scope intelligence is. therefore i think we should consider abilities like speech and bartering their own proficiencies separate from INT. you can be an intelligent character incapable of speech and vice-versa.

that brings us back to my question: how the hell do we implement INT in a way that feels satisfying?
i'm gonna go do some "research" for a bit to see how art handles this theme...
i see it can represent a loss in awareness of one's situation... actually this is a really common function of int loss in art, interestingly enough.
INT loss in art is also often a shorthand for "this character is losing the willpower to resist their fate".

so for flavor purposes, i propose ditching the WILLPOWER stat in favor of INT to better fit into player preconceptions for how a mechanic like this should work.
INT represents willpower and awareness. modifies max PSYCHE, perceptive ability, amount of skills you can prepare, capability for defiance, resistance to psychic attacks, and resisting compulsions.

ESP
represents magical prowess. modifies spell stats, allows learning of higher level spells.

CHA
represents ability to influence others. modifies effectiveness of persuasion, bartering, and hypnosis attacks.

these stats together create 4 primary archetypes:
STR-primary warrior that subdues enemies through force. strong package of offensive and defensive tools. easy to pilot.
DEX-primary fighter with a focus on movement, positioning and ranged attacks. higher skill ceiling.
ESP-primary esper subdues enemies using spells, because you have to have one of those.
CHA-primary bard overcomes enemies through magical song and hypnotic attacks.

physical-orientated characters will typically spec into some mix of CON, STR, and DEX, while psychic types will want both ESP and INT.
it is important that INT as a stat is not a complete necessity for any playstyle except maybe PSYCHE-heavy wizards, but is also useful for any kind of character.
you can be a low-INT caster who only prepares a few spells and has low tolerance for spells that consume PSYCHE, and you can also spec into it as a secondary stat to gain space for more skills and spells that compliment your playstyle.
CON and INT are basically universally useful stats to dump your stat points into for defence and utility, and is itself a way to opt into how much control you want the mental mechanic to have over you.